So welcome
to Using Collision Volumes! In this video, I'm going to explain the Collision Volumes,
also known as Colliders. You may hear me use both terms.
These tell the Physics Engine what hits what, what collides with
what. A trigger volume, in contrast, just triggers code,
and a collider actually has physics simulated on it, so it's a bit more
computationally heavy. And we'll be exploring how to add collision volumes to things,
basically to prevent players from passing through that door.
So, by the end of it, we will have a room that you actually can't
escape, I'll have a glass ceiling in, and if the doors are closed, then
we cannot actually pass through them bang, so we are stuck properly! OK cool, see you soon!
So, let's take a look at this. Of course, we can pass, not through
the walls, we'll talk about that in a future video, but look we can pass straight through
the door. And let me show you how we fix that and use this video as an example
of talking about collision volumes. Collisions are relatively complex
in Unreal, there's lots of stuff going on. If we click say on the door
and we start looking in the Details Panel, down on the left-hand side here, you'll
see you've got several sections. Transform we've talked about, is there's the mesh,
which we'll be using. There's the Materials which have got nothing to do with collisions. I'll collapses that!
There's the physics, which it is the Physics Engine dealing with materials,
but generally the collision has been separated out into a separate thing here,
and it's saying it's got a Collision Preset, which is BlockAllDynamic
objects. Even if we set this, however, to block all
Actors or even Pawns, you'll find that we still will pass through the door.
Let's have a look! You see we still pass through the door. OK,
so it doesn't really matter what we set this to, we're still going to end up passing through the door. So what we need to do,
in this instance, to stop ourselves from passing through the door is put a collision volume on
the door. Let me show you how to do that and talk you through the Collision Volume System.
So, right-click on the door and say Edit SM_Door. So that's editing the door mesh.
I'm going to maximize the ensuing window, not worry about the stuff on the right,
and again, remember your Meyer Controls here. You can hit F to
focus on this door, and then, you can hold the Alt Key, whilst
holding down the Left Mouse Button. So, I'm holding down Alt, which, of course, on a Mac
is also Alt and then holding down the Left-Mouse Button, which is a pretty
cool way of going around this thing. Now, if you toggle Collision at the top of your screen here, you'll see
that there is no green stuff going on, on this door. There is no collision
volume. So let's add one! There's lot of ways, it's got a pretty powerful system. You could add a sphere
and that's of course not what we want. We don't want the system to think that we're colliding that
door when we're this far away. So, sphere is not what we're after.
We can Delete Selected Collision or
Remove Collision, either way. So a capsule, what's a capsule? Well, it
looks like that! That's pretty cool for the players and characters. Players often have this kind of round feature
at the bottom, because it's quite good for going over slopes and bumps. OK,
so that's that, but we don't want that one either. Of course, what we're going to use for a door is just a
simple box collision. And the size of it, is it reasonable? Well, it's
sticking out a little bit far because of the handle, but as a first approximation
that's absolutely fine. There are other tools, pretty good
tools here in Unreal. If I just show you them, they let you do things like
this. You can go Add 10DOP-X Simplified
Collision. So, that's not going to do much in this case, because in the X axis the
thing is pretty semetric right, but you could look at how the different things work. If we do it in
Y, you see that it's trying to match in the Y axis a little,
and then Z again tries to match but it's offsetting and not working very well.
So, it's a pretty good system this! There's all sorts of stuff you can do in terms of
creating collision volumes that aren't too complicated. Collision volumes for performance,
it's very important that they are not too many polygons.
So, if you ever run out of capability
here with Unreal's Collision System, then
you can always create a customized mesh outside of Unreal, whether you created
your mesh in Blender or Maya in 3D Studio, and then, you can import that
collision as a separate issue. But we're not going to deal with that today. All
we're going to simply do is Add Box Simplified Collision
to the door, and it literally puts a cuboid on the door and says that
this is from a physics collision point of view, where I've considered the
door to start and finish. OK, and the benefit of this
is if we were to use the actual mesh, with all it's polygons,
I mean think about the handle of this door, there's a lot of polygons on there. It would just slow the system
down to a halt. It's quite costly as things move around at, you know,100
frames a second, like in our case, to actually be working out whether things are overlapping and
colliding and then to simulate the physics. Because remember that these collision volumes
are a step further than their trigger. They look like a trigger, but they are a step
further because they actually get physics simulated. So,
it's important they're simple. That's really what I want to rub home here. Click save and you
can close this window. Now, that's of course edited, the
actual door mesh. So, both of these doors are based on that, so what I would hope
to find now is that we can't go through either door, and we are finally
properly trapped inside our room, whereas previous we could get out.
Alright, so I have a little challenge for you. I just want to ensure you can't escape
your room, as you have it so far. Make sure there are no gaps in your colliders, if you need to add them
to anything. Test you can't escape over the walls or any other way,
and if you need to, go in and customize your collision volumes. Just mess around with those settings,
and as Einstein says, make things as simple as possible
but no simpler. So go ahead, pause the video, and make sure your room is truly
inescapable!
OK welcome back! So, I'm just going to test my room, a bit of play-testing. By the way, here's a hint here!
When you play, you can hit the F11 Key, F11,
and that will maximize the Play Window. And if you're fed up
with seeing "LIGHTING NEEDS TO BE REBUILT", you can restore,
go ahead pick a lighting quality. Maybe we'll go for
medium to save some time. At least take it off of preview. You see if lighting quality is
set to Preview, then you get these horrible preview things all over your textures.
And then, say Build Lighting Only. It doesn't take too long. Well, it doesn't on my machine. This is a 4
gig i7. It's
doing it though, it's still building. "Build lighting completed", Apply Now, Good!
I'm just going to stop and play again.
Basically, you're better off letting the lighting build finish before you actually
go into the game. Now, you will notice that those preview things have gone off, the lighting looks a little bit nicer,
and the way to test this, by the way, the best way to test it really is to like give it to a 3 year old.
Is to just move around. Now of course, you can get
out of this room, in my case, because I can get out the top of the room, so I really need to put
a roof on here, or to make this Pawn, not a
Pawn, into like a character controller. So, I guess it depends
on our strategy for this. Do we want to be a person flying around, or do we want to be like a
drone flying around? At the moment, we're a drone, and of course, I can go out the
doors because we haven't got a timer on them. So, it's entirely up to you,
whether you want to try and constrain your guy to the ground or let it fly around, but if you
stick with the pawn, which is nice and simple, it's naturally going to be able to fly. And so the
most natural way, in an indoor environment to prevent it from getting out, is actually just to
put some ceiling panels on it. So, we'd go to the Content Browser,
and we'll have a look around and see if we can find something in Architecture.
Like it's likely to end up being a wall panel that we use for the ceiling,
or maybe we can find some glass or something like that. That would be pretty cool, a glass ceiling!
Here you go! So, let's try this glass window, bring it into the scene
here, and then, it's going to rotate it until it's
flat. And then, I'm going to use
the Translation, holding down Shift, so I can bring it up till it looks like it
is level with the roof. And actually, this would be a really great example of using the quad views.
So, I'm going to go into the top-right of the Viewport, into this kind of quad view here,
minimize things that I don't need,
and then, I'm going to get myself scrolled around with the Right Mouse Button, so that I
can see exactly where I'm going. So that looks like it's in line with the roof. Then, I need
to come to a Top View to get it... It's tricky
to grab hold of. I need to go back and select in 3D View. Here we go!
There you go! Select in the right place. Now, you can use the Scale Tool to
actually scale this thing so that it's at least as big as
it needs to be, in order to cover the roof. You get the idea, this is pretty simple. So, I'm just
going to quickly move this thing around. Right Mouse Button to drag it around,
Left Mouse Button to drag the transform, R Key to go into Scale
Mode, and you can also set the parameters in the Details Tab. That's
fine as well. And then, we need to scale in the other direction,
quite a long way. Zoom out... Oh that's a bit too far!
It doesn't matter if it's too big, it just needs to fit right over the top here right?
So now, we have a glass ceiling, literally! Let's have a look and see what happens!
Uh, I can't get out of the roof! That's fine! It's a little bit strange,
diffraction effects with the glass there, but I'm going to live with that for now. I've achieved my goal of
not being able to get out of the room, apart from the fact that these doors don't close on a timer, which we'll deal wth shortly!